so something you just said to me was you
don't know how to feel about protests
yeah I don't have experience with
protests I haven't been involved I
haven't held up signs I haven't gone
door-to-door
protesting things yeah um I have had the
option to in Detroit did some activists
that were standing outside of places
that would sell fur and I just didn't
know if it would be effective I didn't
know it was something that I should be
involved in um I thought if people were
going to a store buying fur they would
already be aware of where it came from I
did not really care that yeah there are
people standing outside claiming that
they are murderers just for the how long
have you moving it about two years so I
think some vegans like direct action
everywhere try to present veganism as if
protests Street protests is really the
core of what being vegan is all about
and for some people it's something very
minor or it's something it's a footnote
it's something around the margins like
veganism exists it's this movement it
does this long list of things but
there's really no obvious reason why
protests it's got to be at the center of
it yeah well the main reason I can think
of is that you real helpless you feel
like I didn't do something right right
we were talking about with that you were
just saying that with Wayne's young like
that sure after years and years of not
feeling like he's being effective right
feeling like you want to make a
difference right yeah he came to this
conclusion that protest would be
something that all right right media
it'd be great but in terms of the in
terms of that feeling like when you
think about it that's you raging against
public and difference so it's the people
who are not vegan that's your reach
others but there's another way to take
that feeling like some people feel like
the core of veganism is about the animal
sanctuaries or is about rescuing stray
cats and like that's not a joke you can
meet people and like their whole [ __ ]
life like every day they're spending
hours and hours taking care of stray
casts so again that's I mean that I
think that there's something similar
there so
wanting to feel like you're making a
difference mm-hmm but that feeling is
being put into animal sanctuaries or
raising cats you know that these other
these other directions to take it in
yeah like I know that feeling because
just I went vegan overnight after we're
in conspiracy and I was I told all my
friends and family that I thought would
be interested and I did the response was
just lackluster it wasn't what I wanted
to hear it wasn't the same response that
I had like why do people not know this
how did I not know this or how was I
blind to it maybe ignorant so yeah I do
know that feeling of just wanting to
scream at people like wake up but sure
it's sometimes it's come up here like we
used a day when we're particularly busy
like we weren't doing anything
particular said to me you may not
remember this you said to me like there
has to be something more we can do I
mean I've been ISM you know like what
just comes and you know I feel you like
you know what you know again I don't
know what was you probably had something
on your mind probably something you just
always something particular you had in
mind but like I know it just comes up
sometimes we're just like there has to
be something more we can do you know a
cake you know it can't just be a diet
you know ya know it has to be something
else like because just the diet won't
won't be effective in creating more
vegan people I think maybe for a short
period of time people will see it as a
fad diet but I don't think well mmm
yeah be a long-term solution well you
know like I believe me I'm not I'm
really not boasting when I say this if
anything I'm laughing at myself being
self-critical but I had a situation at
work where the topic of the day the
students have this organized workshop
type of thing I had no advance warning I
show up and I'm told like 5 seconds went
at the topic of the day is animals and
the students want me to give a lecture
about animals in English so this is
partly these are Chinese University
students back practicing their English
and so on and you know I basically gave
them a lecture about veganism
I was speaking both in English and and
Chinese now I think I'm the first person
to be critical so critical that say look
you know like real life is not activism
your job is not these kids that they
don't want to hear it you know I mean
like there are so many levels in which I
could say this is kind of goofy or
ridiculous but again you know I kind of
couldn't help myself and it did have an
impact if you guys have seen on this
channel there's one video that's called
they don't pay me to sing and it's the
students singing this song they do with
these horses every time this workshop
anyway I gave them this this lecture and
ended by saying the conclusion of it was
every day you are killing animals for no
good reason
and there was this kind of nervous laugh
but that was you know this laugh that
that went around and I said it's true
and there were other elements of it - I
mean I'm by far the biggest human being
at this event like there none of the
Chinese guys in China there if you hang
out in the basketball court you can meet
bigger Chinese guys but I said look I'm
bigger than you
I'm stronger than you I'm stronger than
anyone here you know there are no
college athletes they're you you do not
need to meet every day you were killing
animals for no reason in this birth and
you know so that was really the
conclusion was my saying to them you
know all these other topics got covered
pretty briefly because I was I was
invited to give a lecture about animals
and that's what I'm gonna talk about is
eating animals you know I'm not gonna
say upgraded as dev a pet dog or
something and then they sang that song
this week and that was the most somber
rendition that's soppin I've I've I've
ever heard you know yeah give a try I
can be the one I really
yeah yeah so this but yeah it was a
really down beat yeah kill animals every
day yeah this is really downbeat version
of the song right look I just mentioned
so you know like um I don't know like
you know there are even other words
there's activism there's public outrage
this education there's getting organized
there's many different ways to
politicize veganism there's many ways to
try to make a difference in the world
but I feel I mean like for you like
you're mostly talking about your college
days I assume you know knows after oh
okay well I'll rephrase this question I
think what what I wanted to say was just
like during college many people have a
kind of unexamined idealization of
street protests yeah that for every
movement whether it's whether it's
feminism or the war in Iraq that for
every movement the seal of authenticity
is Street protest yeah yeah yeah I think
I told you in college at least since in
the city that I was in there weren't
very many protest yeah that I knew of at
least yeah which is surprising good yeah
didn't did people take buses to go to
protest in New York City or sign in
bigger cities or webaim's I honestly
don't know okay it's probably yeah but I
I wasn't involved politically yeah
which I do it like I wish I had gotten
more involved with yeah it's weird like
look so I'm from downtown Toronto and
downtown Toronto culture and politically
is really very different from the
suburbs probably a lot of cities are
like that but Toronto is one example and
I went to the largest three protests in
the history of Canada I think it still
has the record maybe's knows but it was
basically against expanding the war into
Afghanistan against that kind of you
know after 2001 it was against the war
in Iraq and Afghanistan at whatever
stage we were at then I forget I think
was before the war in Afghanistan
started yet you know at that stage and
so a huge number of people attended
and you know we was downtown and so we
walking along this Main Street in
Toronto and I could look up into the
windows in the shopping malls on either
side one shopping mall in particular
these big glass windows and the
expressions on the faces of the people
who are not participating of in
comprehension and condemnation and just
kind of disgust for this merger was a
peace protest I mean it's like the
purest guy was basically we don't want a
war we don't want to expand this war for
there's an incredibly simple message
compared to veganism you know ii mean
probably just keeping scorn because they
thought it was unpatriotic people well
not cuz this is canada this is not even
the state so it's not it doesn't even
have it no it's really it really no it's
a good point it's really different and
that way there isn't even an almond
patriot systems like we don't think the
word Patriot was ever Patriots was ever
used yeah because were September 11th
didn't have in Canada yeah yeah it's
very different kind of perspective it's
like well why is why are we even getting
involved in yeah I was probably there
yeah perspective I'm you know so I just
say like you know um I don't know like
look other people that protest do they
remember that as like the pinnacle of
their political ado then that as a
really happy meaningful memory like when
they were a university what they went to
that protest when they were younger
maybe when they were older maybe they
were 50 years old what happened but now
they feel like I for other people
subjectively and emotionally do they
really idealize protest as something
that from my perspective it is not
because you know for me obviously the
protest didn't work it we had then more
than ten years of war in Iraq and
Afghanistan it didn't win it didn't get
it didn't get outcomes and you know it
didn't at that protis I didn't meet one
person or have one new friend or one
connection you know there was nothing in
terms of mobilization or organization
there was no political organization came
out of it there wasn't even anything
within say the most left-wing party in
Canada you know I mean like it didn't
didn't have any political outcomes that
way so I should I look back that no I
don't feel ashamed I went to that point
I don't feel bad about it in that sense
but if anything what I was learning from
that kind of experience um you know III
was very critical of what the role is of
these protests in people's own kind of
dream life yeah yeah one that recently
had been after Trump was elected was a
women's March and I could have gone to
one in Ann Arbor for that so that was
one that just recently happened or I
could have gone to the Capitol in
Michigan Lansing but um no I didn't I
didn't participate in that and it was
kind of out of a sense of feeling like
what what was this accomplishing other
than kind of bringing women together to
stand up against Trump but I just the
things that he said because he had just
been elected he didn't put any policies
that were misogynistic heard yeah yeah
like what yeah this is about just about
the grabbing by the [ __ ] like scandal I
came out like you know that right I'm
not defending Trump not in support of
him but I don't know what the women's
March would do what outcomes gonna yeah
yeah well you you must remember the
Occupy Wall Street period now I was at
2011 yeah that's something like that
yeah and then carried on into 2012 I
think something so you know I was
involved at that time with First Nations
politics First Nations is our polite
word in Canada for what Americans call
American Indians native people
indigenous people who say so first and
just those first nations but you know
for me there was this contrast at that
time between what I thought was really
the meaninglessness and incoherence of
the Occupy Wall Street protests that's
partly criticism is probably just I
don't agree with like the parts of their
agenda that are coherent I actually
disagree with I don't want to go back to
the gold standard their actual economic
reforms they were calling for I don't
agree with I don't want to go back to
the gold standard and some of their
crazy particular economic theories
but anyway so that was that was very
much going on and then we had these from
my perspective really meaningful and
really coherent protests by and for
First Nations so in that area it's the
Cree the edge it is the native peoples
that that part of Canada and to me I
remember saying to my my ex-wife my wife
at the time saying look I feel like this
is the contrast between the politics of
the moment and the politics of the
century like here are these protests for
a cause that's gone on for more than a
hundred years and I think it's still
gonna be going on a hundred years in the
future and here's this Occupy Wall
Street thing and people think it's a
video what what where is it going to be
even five years from now what are the
outcomes going to be and you know I
don't know whether it's sad or positive
but I think I won the my bad I mean I do
feel that basically nothing positive no
real outcomes came out of Occupy Wall
Street despite the fact that it was so
enormous it was so well widely covered
in the media it occurred in so many
cities and again so for me different
people draw different lessons from this
for me I would say well okay look at
Occupy Wall Street and how little it
accomplished and now we have to face up
to the fact that as vegans even if we
were as successful as Occupy Wall Street
we'd still be a failure yeah you know
yeah that's why I kind of the reason I
like your channel so much is that you
talk about legal change like actually
changing policies to help the future the
vegan movement because oh yeah and one
thing that you had talked about recently
that kind of blew my mind I did not
really realize that um the JFK
assassination was involved so much in Oh
civil rights like oh yeah what I thought
it was more about zero tests the
protests that were so like important and
that's that's what gets covered in my
that's what was covered in my history
class oh really yeah yeah yeah
um so I didn't you know realize that it
was something sure I can I mean I think
it's also a question of like wallpaper
in terms of the way newspapers present a
story like for decades and decades the
main like locus for political
discussions was the front page of a
newspaper and they would put a
photograph of protesters while having
the latest story about civil rights of
the Vietnam War or whatever the
controversy was and very often those
photographs were indeed focused on young
good-looking people young good-looking
women you know wearing bikinis with
flowers painted on their bite
that was what dominated the front pages
of newspapers you actually just
mentioned it for that example when the
anti-vietnam War protests started the
core of the organization's the core of
the anti-war movement was actually
people old enough to remember World War
1 name over they were an T it was the
same anti-war activist who averted its
World War One in the 1950s and 1960s
because they were you know so though
those were not the people who were naked
half naked and having flowers together
there were the flower child you know
protestors so you know but the problem
is exactly thinking in terms of cause
and effect okay so this this young woman
in a bikini or these few young women
bouquets who make a photogenic image for
the newspapers to exploit frankly you
know is that really the story of why the
Vietnam War ended when it did is that
the story of why civil rights
legislation was passed when it passed
and again especially if you're looking
at it in terms of legislation the answer
is no yeah really yeah and again in
terms of you know the the role of gender
politics in that LBJ so LBJ is the
present United States who replaced JFK
after his unexpected demise unexpected
for some they expected it anyway you
know LBJ his wife went from town to town
so her nickname was Lady Bird Johnson
and she gave these speeches directly
addressed to you know white supremacists
and white supremacists
much the majority are very you know
strong ideology that was the default
view of society in the American South
she went from town to town explaining
why her husband a white Texan was
supporting this new legislation that
would integrate you know both specific
institutions like the CIA and the FBI
you know federal super the first time
hiring black men and would you know
integrate universities and education
would have you I thought I may just say
that's I mean can you call that activism
standing up in front of that audience
it means it's from the top down it's
someone in a position of power and
privilege who's changing the world and
changing a strange a new society and the
myth is that the street protest is
people who are powerless and voiceless
hmm t King taking to the streets yeah
yeah that is yeah that's a contrast yeah
yesterday you were just telling me that
a mayor in Bangkok was it the arching
mind or something that was vegan for
like 20 years
oh yeah years ago right and yeah so that
maybe that's something that you know I
wish we had more public figures who were
vegan yeah could be something somebody
that could right well I mean I guess he
showed me again maybe that's implied
cause when what is more important you
know when you're looking at protests I
mean obviously celebrity politics could
cover that we have actors and musicians
who are vegan yeah but yeah somebody
like a mayor somebody like a Member of
Parliament the politicians vegan can
obviously have way more impact
yeah then disgruntled university
students I guess yeah
it's definitely not gonna happen with
Trump but I wish that you know Obama
both Michelle and Barack Obama were very
they were very intent on getting people
more concerned about their health yes
move-move was Michelle Obama is like
government program to try to get kids
more active well right and so now both
bill
and Al Gore our vegan in Bill Clinton's
case he identifies primarily as a
dietary vegan as a health vegan yeah but
Al Gore is more or less an ecological
and ethical vegan so what's a few
decades too late for that to matter yeah
but yeah
conservatives kind of think Al Gore is a
joke anyway yeah well he's shot I mean
he had a shot he was the next last
president United States you know he was
you did win an election he was elected
for his people didn't didn't quite turn
out his plan again unexpected for some
yeah but I mean you know look the other
thing is about all these strategies is
that they're not mutually exclusive so
you know like it's not as if revolution
from below and careful political change
from above are mutually exclusive
options
yeah and how much did the protests for
the civil rights movement how much did
it influence when and why the right why
why legal change was made right um so
you can't you can't say it was there was
no part it played no part in that but
right well look at me on a human scale
these things can be moved to exclusive
but when I was looking at Earthling ad
in my recent video um I see a lot of
what he does as praiseworthy and I
sympathetic and laudable yeah um however
in my life uh it is an absolute either
or IQ all that's living in China I have
no civil rights you know I know freedom
of speech I can't do street protests
yeah we can't go out on the street we
can good to it restaurant protests in
front yeah and uh and that would be
really ridiculous here and it wouldn't
it wouldn't make sense in this culture
otherwise to work there are there are
pretty strong roots and right here where
we are the local Buddhist organization
requires all of its members to refuse to
eat meat so we've talked about this
refusing to eat meat is not the same as
veganism it's not even the same as
vegetarianism really but that's a
requirement of the Buddhists hierarchy
here in Indo home which is in
so you know vegetarianism the basic idea
of veganism does have local roots that
you could work with all those all those
issues and opportunities but yeah in
terms of one person and how much time
now much opportune you have these things
are mutually exclusive but and when I
look at something like earthling ed I
more think of it in terms of the future
like well okay so now for what in that
one year you had 300 conversations with
complete strangers who didn't want to
hear which ed say fundamentally they
don't want even ships a some respond
positively some Ursula they have no
interests they don't want you to say
when I'm nursing is okay now looking
ahead to the next five years how much
could you get done if you were talking
to people who were interested and did
one of your job say yeah could to me
that's even firstly yet for this
specific guy it's like okay if he starts
talking to people who actually want to
hear what I say and actually want to
cooperate them one get stuff done then I
think he's going to accomplish way more
in the next five years and doesn't mean
that I think what he's done with the
last one year is is bad and evil and
wrong yeah even I think he was in that
video cuz we were watching the top 10
yes yeah just giving us Pete he was
giving a speech to people who in Tanwar
it so yeah but if you did more of that I
think so you see what it leads to see it
leads to actual organization and actual
lobbying or some some other kind of
activism that is measurable goes but you
remember babe I got an email from Julie
carp strong mmm-hmm and as a joint carp
from another guy he's mostly based on
street street theatre you know where
they play films they have not not
in-your-face disruptive protest but kind
of more quiet protests and then
one-on-one conversations to people so
while they're playing this documentary
showing slaughterers conditions he goes
up in his polite one-on-one
conversations with people so that's
really what he's into that that's what
he devotes his time and effort to and he
said to me and his message to me simply
that he respects what on my channel
likes what he does like he likes what
I'm doing because he recognizes we need
different kinds of strategies for
different kinds of people
Yeah right I do admire what earthling Ed
and Joey kerbs wrong to you sure
yeah sure I can definitely understand
why they do it and I wish them the best
yeah I hope I hope they do make it make
a change for some like individual right
on a bigger scale well look pedda People
for the Ethical Treatment of Animals
they paid the money and they got every
single advertisement in the subway
station remember this thing so there's
one subway station London yeah let's go
oh you know who can you know who can
complain I'm sure I don't have the money
to do that but that's an amazing form
back to even though as vegans we all
hate peda and that the ad pretty much
just said go vegan like every single
thing it showed a picture of a cute pig
and said go vegan there was not much
else it was a strictly vegan you know
active protest yeah so I mean you know
it's the different strategies for
different people who have different
means their decision some people might
respond differently to the different
forms to right will might respond to
earthling ads approach some people might
respond to the ads that sure that PETA
put up and then subway station sure and
it's an amazing fact that some people
have converted to veganism because of
this channel and it's an email talking
about that so I do assume it's a very
particular type of person respond to
these intellectual discussions and and
and become vegan yeah the onion night he
made a video about protests and he was
talking about how for him this this may
not work for other people but actually
being screamed at and a restaurant would
have worked for him oh really and I was
I can kind of sympathize with him
because like when I would watch
cowspiracy it made me realize these
things that had been a little bit under
the surface or just in the background
that I didn't didn't think of and maybe
if someone had been yelling at me in a
restaurant like hey you're eating an
animal I stop right I might have
responded more so than other people but
in his video he said yeah but I'm kind
of weird out that way right I don't
think most people hear that way
generalizable yeah yeah so anyway I
other people will respond differently
and when I first watched cowspiracy and
told other people to watch it other
people did not respond the same way they
just said oh that's that's a shame
that's a shame right or that's a lie
like my parents were my dad specifically
like
really skeptical really skeptical about
the facts about the ecology and how it's
or how animal agriculture affects
ecology yeah and like you said some
people in Canadian culture just say
that's a lie that's any any inconvenient
information they just response it with
with denial yeah I mean you know it in
terms of how I feel about that I mean
again this this is still this question
kind of is protest central to veganism
there's a defined veganism is vegan as a
defined in terms of protest it is well
to quote direct action everywhere is
activism the moral baseline and when
they say activism they mean street
protest yes they mean disruption so
street protest and inside the bakeries
and you know grocery stores or what have
you or is it something marginal you know
in terms of my whole life occurred my
personal life my private life started
with the face when you're talking to
other grown adults I don't see how it is
possible to be an adult and not question
where does milk come from where does
food come from you know and like I mean
that on such a simple level I don't even
mean it's an ethical obligation or athos
off location intellectual obligation I'm
just saying how is it possible that you
like the person's are you got to be 25
years old or 35 years old 55 years old
and you never questioned where does my
food come from you know what I mean and
that makes veganism completely different
from any of the social moon because I I
actually completely sympathize I feel
like you know I did all this research on
Cambodia but I'm not an expert on Syria
and I can't be I can't really derail my
whole life and start researching
politics in Syria just because there's a
new war in Syria you know and I'm
tempted to I mean I was wounded when the
Civil War started in Syria
I remember hearing this one interview in
the radio and weeping I was I was
sitting there alone weeping it was an
interview with actually a rock musician
from Syria and he was talking about the
body count it was very emotionally
moving to me but you know
it is is my point is I totally
sympathize with people just saying look
I know I'm not from Syria Syria is not
part of my life they're not interested
you know I can only choose to be
interested in so many things but what I
eat and drink yeah it's something that
you can do every day
you can choose yeah it's something you
can't not do every day you know you must
yeah yeah yeah
yeah and oh I was gonna say at the time
that I watch conspiracy a few months
prior I had been in this state of really
questioning what I'm gonna do with the
future of my life with my future what
I'm going to do how I'm going to make a
positive impact on the world or at least
not make a negative impact and a lot of
it had to do with the environment how
can i how can I be more environmentally
friendly how can I be a better just
member of this human race member of the
planet yes for both of us really ecology
came first we were kind of into ecology
before we got into veganism yeah yeah so
then a couple months later I was just
scrolling through Netflix and I saw this
documentary that was talking about the
impacts of animal agriculture on ecology
so that's why I got interested in it so
I think if you don't have that base
baseline interest in certain parts of
veganism like you know there are three
basic things like the ecology your
health and then your caring about animal
welfare so if one if one of three of
those doesn't interest somebody I don't
know I don't know how to reach them how
do how to make them care about any of
them right let alone to care about
veganism in general right look at the
health aspect though it does change
things civil rights couldn't offer to
make you more beautiful or to live
longer or to have better clearer sinuses
or clearer skin or think more clearly
yeah I mean it was just it's I mean like
you know like people joke about white
guilt yeah well back in 1955 white guilt
was really
[ __ ] real again really were talking
about there was in your face every day
that you know this school was whites
only in this restaurants only sometimes
this water found was whites only like
white guilt is not really to be
trivialized and you know again sometimes
in Canada we type of First Nation so my
native people again I don't think I
don't think was your joke about white
guilt and what guilt is you don't real
but but still having a guilt based
movements and some vegans I think the
protest face vegans they want to make it
a guilt based movement but look so to
real quick examples mean the health
aspect really really matters when I was
talking to my own mom I forget a couple
days ago a couple weeks ago you know my
mom wants to be more involved with my
life in the next three years
and I was basically saying to her look I
don't really know if you've got three
years you know like in terms of being
healthy and active and not in the
hospital and taking jets all over the
world which is what she does she flies
all around the world constantly and
doing book tours and lectures this is
the way she lives
I said look and you may not realize it
but the cholesterol in your diet doesn't
just make you fat clog your arteries it
clogs your brain atherosclerosis really
needs to be thought of as a spectrum
disorder you know the atherosclerosis of
the brain is terrifying google it you'll
regret you google it you know it's your
life but you know I'm looking here on
that that that health aspect is really
is really pressing um and you know the
health aspect I'm looking at my own
ex-wife my own daughter
they're now lacto-vegetarian so they're
vegetarians who consume dairy and you
know I am I do not think I think
basically veganism is for adults this
deals with grown-up issues I don't have
a guilt based approach to my daughter
drinking milk I don't want to have a
protest based approach you know what I
mean like you know what take a
four-year-old to a you know [ __ ]
budget people screaming on the strip you
know that just music but the health
aspect you know so I just say like you
know I know we don't talk about the
health aspect that often on this channel
partly because there are
channels already handleable enough it's
important I told that to my parents to
another documentary I had them watch
actually watch it with them was
vegetated and that talked a lot more
about the health s person cowspiracy did
and I would I told them you know all of
my grandparents suffered from some level
of dementia and so at throw sclerosis of
the brain and it just doesn't seem to be
very effective I think my mom is
probably like then more convinced by it
because she's a nurse but my dad not so
much um so yeah like yeah yeah yeah so I
mean you know look I have to admit I
would be uncomfortable with veganism
being primarily or wholly a health based
movement I I'm just being honest with
you and I do feel like you know in that
in a video a few weeks ago I quoted that
surgeon he's a heart surgery and heart
attacks but he was actually saying he
avoids using the word vegan because he
doesn't want to using ethical he just is
talking about dietary all yeah just talk
about heart heart attacks and what
happened he's advocating for a vegan
diet but not for ethical veganism Orca
logical veganism that that does freak me
out but nevertheless with that have been
noted the health aspect is really
important and it really does I think you
know galvanize and motivate people to
keep going over the long long term and
it does also make the protest centered
approach you know seem a bit seem a bit
ridiculous one of my patreon supporters
I won't I won't name her I couldn't but
I'll leave it in oh it was one of my
patreon supporters wrote to me recently
saying so her whole household is vegan
but her son saved up don't allowance
money and for whatever reason insisted
on buying chicken so and then this was
debated between the husband and the wife
like okay so it's his choice like we got
a respect forget the kids 11 or
something like you know he's old enough
to start making some choices like okay
look if it's his money and he's going to
buy the chicken we're not going to stop
him even though there have sold this
vegan over so he bought this chicken
it from a restaurant you know cooked
cooked chicken and then he got horribly
ill he got something like Salmonella
boys so then the mom is you know
whatever cleaning up his vomit and
cleaning up the mess the chicken made in
the kitchen itself and all this stuff
and feeling disgusted as the smell of
the chicken house and and the the kid is
sick and what-have-you and I remember
one of my first reactions I wrote back
to I said look you know if you put this
in a movie or a sitcom it would seem
fake maybe it's too perfect you know so
the kid for the vegan house rebels
against his parents yeah uh you know
it's it's it's kind of too perfectly an
example but sure I mean you know yeah
yeah health health and so on can't be in
the background and healthy is what
brought in you know people like like
Bill Clinton to play there very strange
role in the movement but which is
nevertheless I mean okay Bill Clinton
being vegan it's it's more important
than walking up to one more person on
the street and telling them why are you
wearing a fur coat or one more protest
in front of things I don't know yeah
even though it's nothing you can do I
mean you have no role in somebody
somebody in power becoming vegan but
yeah I do think so look I mean just
again so for me political activism is
way broader and deeper than protests
protesting is one thing is one type of
activity and political activism is all
kind of stuff and if you guys watch my
channel unless you knew the channel I
talk a lot about examples like Mothers
Against Drunk Driving Mothers Against
Drunk Driving is not a protest based
movement they do public education they
do yoga but they they literally show up
in children's classrooms talk about
drunk driving they have all these
different formats of reaching out to the
public publication and also reaching out
to and influencing government laws in
the past but they changed laws
everywhere they change laws but
everything's from seat belts to you know
with the breathalyzer
what percentage of alcohol is acceptable
they influence government policy in a
massive way but they're not a protest
based movement they're not so politics
is much bigger than than protest but I
do have to say you know in a big way one
of the reasons why I'm not considering
living in Asia
long term is that poll that I feel I
need to be back I need to be back
somewhere where I can be part of that
those yeah yeah go up to town hall and
talk about how you want to change light
that's something like I've been
interested in having the ability to go
up and talk to the school board and say
be like I don't want there to be dirty
posters in the school like I don't want
kids to see this propaganda for the
darin why are you teaching kids that
eggs are healthy yeah this kind of
question hmm yeah being able to be
involved with yeah a city well you know
he said once I released the other but
that was also funny I've been doing this
survey with with my students it's their
final oral exam and many many of the
students for their final oral exam that
a choice what they wanted to talk about
and a lot of them talked about the
importance of physical exercise sport
phys ed what I want to say and in
physical health in that sense sport
training or says the I don't know I'm
going to actually calculate what
presented seemed like 25% of the
students chose to but that how important
sport was in their lives I'll figure out
the actual percentage at the end of the
assignment and it was interesting
because when they were talking about
that many of them what they were really
talking about is their struggle as
Chinese people to remain slim despite
eating a diet that consists largely of
pork fat you know very unhealthy very
high fat oily you know but meat it's a
meat-based diet here you know it is now
you know this this they meet three miles
a day they're eating meat breakfast
lunch and dinner in even if it's in
small portions and they and they yogurt
here yogurt is big that they have all
the stuff but was interesting because
and but when they were talking about how
meaningful phys ed physical education
was in their lives it was like well
think about how differ if we thought of
that in terms of nutritional science
yeah because he was one of the options
you gave did anybody choose it I thought
that was something was it I didn't I
didn't give it to them I didn't give
them no it's not okay okay okay but yeah
sure you could yeah
I mean in theory you could choose
nutritional science but in a sense a lot
of what they're talking about with sport
and exercise is a struggle against their
own ignorance of nutrition and you know
I feel I'm a beneficiary I look kind of
way better than I should I don't I don't
get them justice I really don't uh but
you know of looking way better than
should because you not you're not
setting that you're not creating that
obstacle for yourself with the
misunderstanding of health and diet yeah
yeah but it's also not true that going
out a vegan diet will make you yeah I'll
eat a lot you can diet actually gained
weight when I first wanna be ya know
yeah totally understand ok well I look I
mean ultimate veganism as a diet I've
never heard about any diet really being
successful because of protests like a
protest based diet or protest getting
people to adopt a diet that is really a
stretch it really is it really is and
it's not comparable to like think about
instead the role of protease protests or
anti-nuclear protests that's not asking
you to change how you live 365 days a
year you know like there were people
because the anti-nuclear thing went on
for decades and decades I remember when
I was a small child ok so you're against
nuclear bombs so realistically maybe
four times a year you go to a protest
against nuclear bombs and the other
thing okay the other thing is about
those movements everyone in them feels
like an expert like a lot of you guys
but like everyone who is in the
anti-nuclear or anti-war movement in the
1980s they felt they knew everything
about nuclear bombs you know I mean you
know they're not experts they read a few
pamphlets maybe they read one book
whatever you know but they knew nuclear
waste is bad nuclear wars but they had
this simplistic view and they'll they
get an ego trip out of it so maybe four
times a year you go to a protest and you
literally hold up a sign with the peace
symbol on it and and they chant no more
nukes and there's a big payoff right
there's this big sense of I'm better
than everyone else have an axe but they
get they get a lot out of it that way
and yeah I feel veganism is the opposite
and all these things
if this morose lonely ethical burden I
don't feel great on the contrary it
leads you elite you to regard
parents as scumbags and you know all
this like I have so many videos talking
about this where you know you feel
alienated from your own co-workers and
your own family and your own culture and
there's millions of animals dying every
day anyway you know you're not doing
anything to really help those animals
you're only you're only doing your small
part to not make things even worse
you don't even this is this terrible
nightmare at sixty-five day of the year
but I don't think so yeah so putting
protests at the center of it
apart from questions of effectiveness
that seems like a bit of a downward
spiral to to madness
I know keeping it all the way real yeah
but when you're in the face of it I feel
especially you're frustrated and
irritated when somebody so close to me
like my own dad would say you know
nothing you're doing is changing things
right you know animals are getting
slaughtered every day you're not
changing anything that gives me even
more fuel to want to say yeah I'm
changing something like let's get out
there and like do something but what
what do I do
um well look look look look look look
the most underrated form of activism is
running a restaurant running a vegan
restaurant running of you well I mean
when you think about it we think of it
like that maybe on a shallow level would
be my answer is that you know it
shouldn't be a protest centered movement
it should be a restaurant centered mode
like it's I know like it's weird how
that becomes invisible with me because
most vegans are all the time obsessed
with finding vegan restaurants that
we're traveling where we were going to
Beijing we're flying to France we're
flying around the world and of course
the first thing you're doing is googling
the vegan restaurants wherever it is
you're you're going right but the effect
on everyone the effect on people who
already are vegan the effect on people
who aren't vegan yet who maybe go there
were the friend the people have never
even heard of veganism for because I've
seen that I've been in vegan restaurant
so people came in who didn't know the
meaning of the word vegan yeah they just
thought oh this is a nice restaurant or
something like oh they have pancakes
whatever they see you know whatever's
been really really really
really like it seems like there's just
not enough appreciation for the role of
the the restaurant er er rather than the
revolutionary that's my exit line Maury
it's a wrap cut heart out